# Week 1, Day 1

Welcome!

## Today's Goals

- Get to know each other
- Get familiar with Galvanize/full-stack program
- Learn how to be successful at Galvanize
- Set up your computers!

## Schedule

### 8:30am

- Mingle - say "Hi"
- Breakfast provided by Galvanize

### 9am

- "Welcome" - Michael
- Staff Intros -Michael, Zach, Reyna, Casy, Lydia, Joanna, Evan, Kelly, James
- Student Testimonial/Advice - Kenneth To (from G6)

### 9:30am

- Icebreakers!

### 11am

- "Learn to Learn" with Evan

### 12pm

- Lunch! (provided by Galvanize)

### 1pm

Divide into groups...

 - Computers (network access, download Chrome, and Atom) with Michael
 - Joanna for $$$/contracts
 - Photos with Reyna
 - Tours/Fob with Casy/Kelly/Matt
 - Outcomes with James
 - Speed Pong with Zach

### 3pm

- Computer setup - [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/), [iterm2](https://www.iterm2.com/) and [zsh](https://medium.com/salesforce-ux/iterm2-with-zsh-shell-5944ee0502ac), Node and Git (via brew), [Spectacle](http://spectacleapp.com/)

### 4:30pm

- Wrap up
- Happy Hour

## Course Overview

**Unit 1**
- Orientation
- Command Line
- Version Control with Git
- Javascript Fundamentals

**Unit 2**
- Advanced Javascript
- Object Oriented Programming
- Testing
- Sorting Algorithms

**Unit 3**
- HTML
- CSS
- DOM Manipulation
- Recursion

**Unit 4**
- DOM manipulations with jQuery
- AJAX
- APIs
- HTTP and Internet Basics
- Linked Lists

**Unit 5**
- React
- JS Research Project

**Unit 6**
- Node
- NPM, Servers, Express
- RESTful Routing

**Unit 7**
- CRUD with Express
- Databases
- MongoDB
- Mongoose/Monk

**Unit 8**
- Advanced Express Apps
- Single Page Apps
- Scraping
- Trees

**Unit 9**
- Full Stack JS Project

**Unit 10**
- Ruby Basics
- Rspec

**Unit 11**
- Introduction to Rails
- Rails Actionpack
- MVC fundamentals
- SQL Databases

**Unit 12**
- Advanced SQL Queries
- Model Associations
- Validations

**Unit 13**
- Advanced Rails
- User Authentication
- Scraping
- Mailers
- Rake Tasks

**Unit 14**
- Midterm Pair Rails Project

**Unit 15**
- Midterm Pair Rails Project Continued

**Unit 16**
- Angular Introduction
- Built-In Directives
- Controllers
- Custom Directives

**Unit 17**
- Advanced Angular
- Angular + Rails
- Angular + Express

**Unit 18**
- Project

**Unit 19**
- Project Continued

**Unit 20**
- Interview Techniques
- Computer Science Review
- Sorting
- Trees
- Graphs

**Unit 21**
- Capstone Project

**Unit 22**
- Capstone Project

**Unit 23**
- Capstone Project

**Unit 24**
- Capstone Project and Graduation

## What makes a good developer?

* Resourcefulness - http://whathaveyoutried.com
* Passion

## Advice from previous gSchool students

* Ask a lot of questions
* Check your ego at the door
* Help others and don't be afraid to ask for help EVER!
* get comfortable with feeling uncomfortable/lost/confused
* Write a list describing the kind of developer you want to be and what you want to be an expert at(sometimes it helps to look at your dream jobs role descriptions). Make sure that you set aside a little bit of time every week to work on one small thing on the side that addresses that(whether it’s reading about CSS mark-up or making a miniapp using a non-relational database, doing a one hour tutorial on how to use redis etc).
* my advice would be to not be intimidated, everyone starts somewhere. People that seem to know it all, knew little at first.
* it's important to actually do the homework. It helps to retain new information and gives you a chance to practice!
* when you run into a small bug that you think you can solve using trial and error, fire up a debugger instead and try to solve it in one shot.
* "the problem isn't solving the problem, it's figuring out how to finding the answer."
* Get sleep and take consistent breaks, ESPECIALLY if you feel like you're in a rut. You'll often think of a solution while you're taking a break, exercising, or waking up from a reasonable night's sleep.
* Don't just focus on learning syntax but make sure you understand the concepts of how mvc frameworks operate and pay attention to high level concepts. I would also throw in there to make sure to actively practice communication since lots of programmers do not know how to communicate or relate with people.

## Homework

- Finish the pre-work!
